I started developing a liking for finance when I was asked to value a mid-cap NSE stock as part of an experimental project while working with Mu Sigma. This initiated a spark which further fueled all my future endeavors to learn more about the financial world. This also ignited my pursuit of CFA certification to enhance my knowledge about finance.
As part of my professional journey with Mu Sigma, I got an opportunity to work for an Australian regional bank and help it set up and maintain a Model Monitoring Framework for Credit Risk Models for its Home Loan and Personal Loan portfolios. This project was part of a bigger goal of achieving Advanced Basel II accreditation from Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority (APRA) for the bank. This introduced me to the field of Risk Management. The realization that poor risk management led to Global Financial Crisis in 2008 got me interested in Risk Management and this only intensified when I joined CRISIL as a Risk Analyst for the Investment Risk Management team of an Asset Management client based in New York.
As part of the role in CRISIL, I have got an opportunity to execute a variety of projects for the Investment Risk Management team. I have worked on creating a custom spread series factor which was used to improve a vendor risk model for Credit Risk Transfer (CRT) deals. I have also performed research on current statistical methods used in the industry for VaR (Value-at-Risk) back-testing of UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) and building a Graphical User Interface in MATLAB to perform these back-tests, given an input of returns and VaR values for one or more funds. Another project involved creation of a dashboard in Qlikview to analyze different risk measures (Beta, VaR, Exposure, Duration, etc.) associated with different Alternative, Fixed Income and Multi-Asset funds managed by the client. The dashboard also enabled comparison of risk metrics across different funds. Currently, I am working on creating a Liquidity Risk Report which will classify assets within 1940 Investment Act mutual funds according to SEC rule 22-e4, by devising rules for different types of securities like Equities, P-notes, Depositary Receipts, Options, Swaptions, etc. This role has developed an interest for Quantitative Risk Management which I want to pursue further.
Since I started pursuing CFA certification, I wanted to learn more about computational finance being used in the industry currently owing to interdisciplinary interests I developed in finance, applied mathematics and programming over the course of my academic and professional life. Doing an MFE at that time would have helped me accomplish these goals but I wanted to gain some experience in the field, first. Having gained experience with the investment risk team of a large global asset manager based in New York as a Quantitative Risk Analyst in CRISIL, I think now is the right time to apply for MFE which will help me gain the knowledge I need to advance my career in the domain of Quantitative Risk Management and tackle more advanced business problems in the field. Additionally, the professional experience I gained has greatly motivated to pursue a Master’s course and learn about Quantitative Risk Management in greater depth.
I had developed an interest in risk related research as I worked on projects in Mu Sigma and CRISIL, covering asset classes like equities, alternatives, and retail and home loan portfolios of a bank. I intend to pursue this research interest during and after the MFE program and apply it to varied business problems in risk management. The practical curriculum offered by the Mathematics in Finance program will expand my knowledge in the domain of Risk Management. Also, the program offers a unique opportunity to learn from highly experienced practitioners in the field of Risk Management which will provide an encouraging and stimulating environment to get prepared for solving challenging real-world problems. The program offered by NYU will also expose me to courses in Data Science and Financial Computing, which are essential for any quantitative risk management role, and will greatly supplement my work experience as a Risk Analyst for an New York based Asset Management client in CRISIL and the Data Analytics experience I previously gained in Mu Sigma.
The purpose of this optional essay is to get to know you as an individual and as a potential graduate student, and to understand how your background will add to the diversity of our school. Please describe how your personal background has motivated you to pursue a graduate degree. You may discuss educational, familial, cultural, socioeconomic, or personal experiences or challenges; gender identity; community services, outreach services, first-generation college status or other matters relevant to your decision to pursue graduate education. 
Being born and brought up in a small city of Yamunanagar in the northern state of Haryana in India with a population of around 250,000, I was not exposed to a lot of opportunities during my school days and was not aware of a lot of career opportunities due to my humble family background in those days. I did not have a cell phone or internet connectivity at home till the start of my undergraduate degree. Despite those hindrances, I worked hard and got a rank in the top 1% of candidates in the All India Engineering Entrance Examination [AIEEE] in 2009 just after high school, an examination held throughout the country for undergraduate admissions in engineering colleges in India. During my school days, I developed a liking for mathematics and consistently performed well in it throughout my schooling. That had definitely shaped my decision to pursue sciences in high school. I think being from a small town and a family which didn't have any graduates from a quantitative background posed me some difficulty to narrow down my career interest and I took some time after my undergraduate degree to figure out my interests and the areas I wanted to focus my higher studies and career on. 
The motivation to pursue higher studies came from my mother who got married at the young age of 20 while she was about to pass out of her undergraduate school. She continued her studies even after marriage and simultaneously raised my sisters and me. I and my siblings have been able attend a school where the medium of instruction was English due to the sustained efforts she put in sending us to such a school. It was not common to send children to such schools in those days in my city for a household with limited income such as mine. She has inculcated in me the importance of working hard to achieve what I want in my career despite societal or circumstantial obstacles. I think I owe it to my mother and her parenting that I am able to write this statement or be able to think about applying to a course in the US.
