Hardeep Singh
Masters of Engineering Program – Financial Engineering Concentration
Statement: Please submit your statement of purpose. This one- or two-page statement states your reasons for undertaking graduate work and explains your academic interests, including their relation to your undergraduate study and professional goals. Include your full name and your proposed field of study at the top of each page.

I started developing a liking for finance when I was asked to value a mid-cap NSE stock as part of an experimental project while working with Mu Sigma. This initiated a spark which further fueled all my future endeavors to learn more about the financial world. This also ignited my pursuit of CFA certification to enhance my knowledge about finance.
During my undergraduate degree, I particularly liked Mathematics and Programming courses and wanted to pursue a career which included an amalgamation of these two skills. I got an opportunity to learn C programming in college which served as a start of my programming learning which further developed in Mu Sigma where I was exposed to multiple programming languages like SQL, SAS and R. In addition to programming, I learnt statistics in Mu Sigma and applied these two skills to solve business problems for multiple clients. 
During Mu Sigma, I worked for an Australian regional bank and helped it to set up and maintain a Model Monitoring Framework for Credit Risk Models used by the bank for its Home Loan and Personal Loan portfolios. This project was part of a bigger goal of achieving Basel II accreditation by Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority (APRA). As part of the project, I performed statistical tests like Binomial test, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, t-test and Hosmer-Lemeshow test, and calculated GINI coefficient in SAS to evaluate the accuracy and goodness of fit for Probability of Default models for the bank’s Personal and Home Loan Portfolios. This developed my interest in the broader field of Risk Management and its various aspects and I wanted to pursue a role which was more aligned with this interest.
The search for such a role landed me in CRISIL, where I currently work as a Risk Analyst in the Investment Risk Management team of a large asset management client based in New York. This role has exposed me to multiple projects in Risk Management across different asset classes like alternatives, equities and fixed income. As part of this role, I have worked on creating a custom spread series factor which was used to improve a vendor risk model for Credit Risk Transfer (CRT) deals, a structured product originally issued by Freddie Mac in 2013 (and subsequently by Fannie Mae) in a bid to share the credit risk borne by Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) with the private markets. By working on this project, I learnt how structured products can be used to distribute risks within the financial system and why risk modeling and monitoring is essential for such products, the risks of which pervade a large part of the economy.
Another project involved doing research on current statistical methods used in the industry for VaR (Value-at-Risk) back-testing of UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) and building a Graphical User Interface (GUI) in MATLAB to perform these back-tests. As part of this project, I implemented the ability to conduct an unconditional coverage VaR back-test, which was a t-test based on Binomial distribution, for a given input of returns and VaR values provided in the GUI. I also included a conditional coverage VaR back-test based on a first order Markov chain [Christoffersen & 

Hardeep Singh
Masters of Engineering Program – Financial Engineering Concentration

Pelletier (2004)] in the GUI. This project taught me the importance of back-testing risk measures like VaR and why they are necessary to continuously monitor risks of such large retail funds managed by asset managers.
In addition to abovementioned projects, I also worked on creation of a dashboard in Qlikview to analyze different risk measures (Beta, VaR, Exposure, Duration, etc.) associated with different alternative and fixed income funds managed by the client. The dashboard also enables comparison of risk metrics across different funds. During CRISIL, I also got an opportunity to learn and apply VBA to develop and/or automate risk and performance reports for Asian equity funds managed by the client. These projects helped to better visualize the risk for all portfolios and funds involved. From these projects, I also learnt about the different types of risk metrics which are used to analyze the risks associated with these types of funds and how correlation between these can be used to draw useful insights. Currently, I am working on a project related to Liquidity Risk classification of assets of mutual funds based on SEC rule 22-e4 and as I am researching more on it, I have begun to realize the importance Liquidity Risk management plays in Risk Management and why it is essential to have liquidity risk models in place, especially in the post Global Financial Crisis (2008) era.
All the above projects I have worked on while working in Mu Sigma and CRISIL have immensely helped me to gain understanding of Risk Management for various asset classes and have fueled my curiosity further to learn more about Risk Management and the increasingly important role it plays in asset management and economy, at large. By pursuing Financial Engineering Concentration in the Masters of Engineering program at School of Operations Research and Information Engineering, I intend to grow and deepen my understanding of Quantitative Risk Management and learn to apply the skills and knowledge gained to challenging business problems in this sphere of Financial Engineering post graduation.
