As part of my professional journey with Mu Sigma, I got an opportunity to work for an Australian regional bank and help it set up and maintain a Model Monitoring Framework for Credit Risk Models for its Home Loan and Personal Loan portfolios. This project was part of a bigger goal of achieving Advanced Basel II accreditation from Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority (APRA) for the bank. This introduced me to the field of Risk Management. The realization that poor risk management led to Global Financial Crisis in 2008 got me interested in Risk Management and this only intensified when I joined CRISIL as a Risk Analyst for the Investment Risk Management team of an Asset Management client based in New York.
As part of the role in CRISIL, I have got an opportunity to execute a variety of projects for the Investment Risk Management team. I have worked on creating a custom spread series factor which was used to improve a vendor risk model for Credit Risk Transfer (CRT) deals. I have also performed research on current statistical methods used in the industry for VaR (Value-at-Risk) back-testing of UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) and building a Graphical User Interface in MATLAB to perform these back-tests, given an input of returns and VaR values for one or more funds. Another project involved creation of a dashboard in Qlikview to analyze different risk measures (Beta, VaR, Exposure, Duration, etc.) associated with different Alternative, Fixed Income and Multi-Asset funds managed by the client. The dashboard also enabled comparison of risk metrics across different funds. Currently, I am working on creating a Liquidity Risk Report which will classify assets within 1940 Investment Act mutual funds according to SEC rule 22-e4, by creating rules for different types of securities like Equities, P-notes, Depositary Receipts, Options, Swaptions, etc. I believe that my exposure to multiple facets of Risk Management during the course of my professional experience will stand me in good stead and greatly help me in my post-MSCF career path by directly contributing to a successful career in Risk Management.


The MSCF program’s practical curriculum will expand my knowledge in the domain of Risk Management and specifically, the required course ‘Risk Management I’ by Professor Lehoczky and elective course ‘Risk Management II’ by Professor Shreve will help me calculate financial risks (market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk) some of which have become prominently important to model and monitor post the 2007-08 Global Financial Crisis. These courses also deal with other concepts like Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) and Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA) which are extremely important in the current regulatory environment, especially after the finalization of BASEL III guidelines which have strengthened regulatory capital ratios. Through these courses, I will also learn how to build risk management solutions for portfolios involving complex derivatives and structured products owing to their emphasis on solving real-world problems.
The program will also expose me to courses in Data Science and Financial Computing, which are essential for any quantitative risk management role, and will greatly supplement my work experience as a Risk Analyst for an New York based Asset Management client in CRISIL and the Data Analytics experience I previously gained in Mu Sigma. I have performed statistical modeling and data analysis in R to solve different business problems while working for Mu Sigma and the Financial Data Science I and II courses, particularly, will strengthen this foundation by applying statistical methods to financial data. 
All the above-mentioned attributes of the program will enable to solve more complex and challenging problems in Risk Management that are relevant in the industry. The program’s additional focus on Business Communication, which I feel is unique to the program, is vital in communicating with clients while explaining aspects of complex financial products. I feel all these aspects will help me advance my career in Risk Management.
